Bruschetta is made up of very simple flavors, and is therefore best if you make it with highest quality and freshest ingredients you can find.
2 lbs. fresh tomatoes (roma, heirloom, beefsteak...whatever is in season is best)
1/2 fresh onion
4 cloves fresh garlic
1 bunch fresh basil
4 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil
sea salt and fresh ground pepper
Italian bread or baguette
Using a sharp knife, dice the tomatoes as small as you can.  I try to aim for 1/4" cubes and try to mush or break the tomatoes as little as possible.
Next, finely chop the onion and throw it into the bowl.

**If you're opposed to using raw onions, you can also lightly saute the chopped onion in a frying pan with a little bit of olive oil, garlic, salt and pepper.  It adds a sweeter deeper flavor to the bruschetta, and is an excellent variation to this recipe.**

Next, chop the fresh garlic and add it onto the growing pile of deliciousness.
Add in some fresh basil to taste.  I'm using 3-4 large leaves here, but there's no "right" amount.

The cutting method that I'm using to chop the basil is called a chiffonade.  Check out the How to Chiffonade Instructable for a complete explanation of that method.
Add in the extra virgin olive oil, sea salt, and fresh ground pepper and mix the ingredients thoroughly.  

If you've got the time, let the mixture setup for 30 minutes in the refrigerator, if you don't it's also delicious when eaten immediately.
Cut 1/4" thick slices of fresh Italian bread or baguette and toast them.

A proper bruschetta would use real hot coals to toast the bread, but it's perfectly understandable if don't have access to a slow burning fire moments before serving dinner.  Toast the bread in a toaster, or under the broiler if you've got a big batch.

Once the bread is good and toasted, remove it from the oven and use a pastry brush to paint each slice of bread with olive oil.  Then, using half a hunk of raw garlic, rub one side of the crusty slices down to impart some delicious garlic flavor directly onto the bread.
Finally, pile as much of the bruschetta as possible onto the freshly toasted bread, serve, and enjoy!